---
layout: page
title: Active Measures Down Under? 
permalink: /tact
---

# TL;DR

- Do I need to call in my Sys Admins to patch everything over the weekend? No.
- Do I need to brief my leadership team/board? Maybe.
- Should I have this in my back pocket when I ask for $$$? Yes.

--- 

# The Short

A little background.

Australia just had an election, the second since legislation was passed in June 2018 to attempt to curb foreign (read: Chinese) election interference. However, considering there was less than a year between the act passing and the 2019 election there likely wasn't enough time to completely reorient so let's pretend this is the first.

Fast forward to 2022.

A couple of news stories dropped via "leaks" at inopportune times for the Liberal party. The first was a leaked draft security agreement between China and the Solomon Islands that appeared online on March 24th, less than 2 months out from the election. The second was a leak of emails from the Nauru Police, where Australia has an offshore processesing center for asylum seekers, on May 2nd less than 3 weeks before the election. The timing, content, and other contextual details point to these leaks not being organic.

So what?

If we accept that premise that the leaks are not organic but were the product of an intelligence service, then look for an explanation based on capapbility and motive we can quick narrrow the potential source to China. There are nations that have the capability but no motive and can ignore right away for example the UK and US. Russia has the capability but have bigger things to worry about, they might have a motive with Australia being Five Eyes and a major US ally but again, bigger things to worry about. China has the motivation but haven't displayed this capability in this way before, although they definitely have the means to develop it. They have a history of political interference in Australia, did they just give up after the Espionage and Foreign Interference Act was passed? I doubt it and believe they have been developing the capabilties required to run Soviet/Russian style Active Measures operations.

The material effects


# The Long

I will expand this as more evidence comes forth and as time allows.

---

[¹]()
[²]()
[³]()
